I'm in a new project which looks like this is the browser at the beginning and then the project itself
is basically app.vue file which is pretty empty, just get the bootstrap container row and column
set up here and an empty object which doesn't return any data yet.
And well all the other files are pretty empty as well,
just import it bootstrap here in the index.html file.
So this is what I'll start with
and the goal now is to show this simple case of adding an element to the dom, we learned that before and
then animating it,
so let's add an element first. I'll add a new let's say horizontal line here first and thereafter, I
want to have a button with classes button and button primary to give it some styling where we can say
show alert
and I want to show such a bootstrap alert, so using this css class the bootstrap framework offers
me which is alert
and then let's say it's an info alert, like this, this is some info.
Now if we have a look at this in the application, this is what it will look like if it's always attached,
something a bit too close to the button for my tastes,
let me add some other line breaks here.
So that is what it should look like,
now I want to show this alert conditionally and we learned how to do that. In order to show it conditionally,
I will add a new property named show and I'll set it to false initially to not show it
and then on this alert div, I will simply add v-if, I could also use v-show, that is also animateable
as you will learn. So I will use v-if here
and then I will check
show and on this button therefore, I will set a click listener or add a click listener where I simply
set show to what it currently is not,
so to toggle it, if it's true it will be set to false and the other way around.
Now if we save this and have a look at this application, we can now show the alert like this,
this is nice,
this is what we learned before and this is also not animated,
so we should change this.
And as I showed you on the slides before, we can change this by simply wrapping this div in this transition
component here vuejs offers us,
this is a special component which we can use to animate anything which is between the opening and closing
tag.
Important here,
you can only animate one element with transition,
now you can have multiple elements inside of this transition component, like this
but then the conditions of these elements have to alternate.
You cannot animate a list in there let's say, you cannot
animate the addition or deletion of list items, you can have multiple elements in here to transition
between them but you can only show one at a time.
So doing this here will instantly give me an error in the console
as you can see because we only may use it for a single element and should use another element, we
will learn about later,
you see it here later.
So let me remove this,
now as you could see, if I put it or if I use one element this is shown but it's still not animated yet.
So how do we animate it with this transition element?